The first thing we're going to do then once we've connected to this database retrieve some data from
it.
So you'll remember that I've saved just one piece of data in this database that is my email address
and password.
So we're going to try and get that back from the database and display it in our script.
The first thing I'm going to do is change this code slightly so that it doesn't display anything.
If the data base connection was successful but if the database connection wasn't successful the script
actually stops and we can do that using the die command which feels a bit harsh but to be honest if
we can do a database connection then there's no point doing anything else.
So we should always have a clause that if the connection fails the script just stops.
All right.
The second bit of preparation that we need is to assign a variable to that to our database connection
so that we can refer to it later on.
And normally we call that variable link but you can call it whatever you like but I think it's pretty
standard.
All right.
The first step then in querying our database is to create a query and this is where my school comes
in.
Is there anything between these two quotes will not be in PH.
It will be in my school.
So we're learning a whole new language here.
But don't worry it's pretty straightforward.
So if we want to select everything from the user's table within our database then we would just say
select and assemble for everything and ask you where is store.
So this means select everything from and then the table name which is uses and that's it.
That's our way of saying selects everything from our users table.
Notice the capitalization then it's not necessary.
This code will work fine without it but it is conventional.
That with my ask you how you capitalize the standard MY ASK YOU key keywords and that just makes the
whole thing easier to read.
But if you're experiment you'll find that that works just as well.
It's just not as easy or as conventional or to read as with the capitalization right.
So that's that's all we need from out as well sides.
We just need to now run the query using our link connection to this database and we do that in a few
steps.
So step one is to actually do the query and we do this using my SU.
I underscore queery and then we give the database connection that we want to do the query over.
So in this case link and then we gave the query itself so I've called that query and that will do the
query but it won't actually return the results.
So the way we normally use this would be to put an if statement around it to check to see whether it's
been successful.
So if that works it will return true.
So for now we can say query was successful and just before we run that I need to add the database name
to the miscue like connect command up here.
So on the web hosting service as on many web hosts the database name and the database username are the
same.
So I'm just going to copy that part and put it at the end there.
And this is the database name.
If you're using a different webhost or different system then you should check to see whether the database
user name and name are different.
All right let's have a look them run this and query was successful.
Fantastic.
So that's all well and good but we want to actually get the data back from that query.
So how do we do that.
Well first we assign a variable to the result of the miscue query.
Normally we call that result.
So now we can use the variable result to refer to this query and if it was successful then we can get
the results from it and we do that using my skew.
I fetch.
Fetch array like that and then
we say that we want to fetch the array associated with this query of this result and normally that will
be a row of the database.
So we normally call that row like that.
OK so that's printout.
And but print is print a readable version of an array.
And there we go.
So our first real proof that we have connected to that database we've got our data back in the form
of an associative array with the ID email and password.
Notice that each variable that can be accessed in two different ways might be slightly clearer if I
look at the source so you can use 0 1 and 2 to refer to the ID email and password.
Or you can use probably more usefully variable names so Id email and password.
All right very quick challenge then just to show that you know how to use that array.
Can you make it so that instead of displaying the contents array it says your email is and then robot
replaced with the current UK and your password is and then my password
all rights should be fairly straightforward.
Two different ways to do it of course.
So we could say your email is and then have we taken the right array and using e-mail and your password
is.
And then you want the password field in Iraq as well.
Obviously appending that in the usual way with periods of full stops.
Take a look.
There we go.
Wonderful.
And you could also have done it using the numbered fields although not zero.
I would have called you the ID 1 and 2.
And that will do exactly the same thing.
All right.
That's as far as we're going to go in this video.
There's a lot more that you can do with queering.
Obviously being able to select everything from the database is not what you want to do.
Most of the time we're going to take a quick break from queering and we're going to see how to add and
update data in the database and then we'll look at more advanced queries to select the data that we
want and also to loop through if we get multiple results.